docs: ABCI 2.0 tutorial (#1374)
cometbft/cometbft: docs/tutorials/forum-application/4.query-message.md

# Query Message

> **In this section you will learn how a user query messages on the forum application.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**In this section you will learn how users query messages on the forum application.**
```

account balances, transaction history, or any other data stored in the application's state.

**Following is the code for the `Query` function:**

```go
// Query the application state for specific information
func (app *ForumApp) Query(ctx context.Context, query *abci.QueryRequest) (*abci.QueryResponse, error) {
	fmt.Println("Executing Application Query")

	resp := abci.QueryResponse{Key: query.Data}

	// Parse sender from query data
	sender := string(query.Data)

	if sender == "history" {
		messages, err := model.FetchHistory(app.state.DB)
		if err != nil {
			return nil, err
		}
		resp.Log = messages
		resp.Value = []byte(messages)

		return &resp, nil
	}
	// Retrieve all message sent by the sender
	messages, err := model.GetMessagesBySender(app.state.DB, sender)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, err
	}

	// Convert the messages to JSON and return as query result
	resultBytes, err := json.Marshal(messages)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, err
	}

	resp.Log = string(resultBytes)
	resp.Value = resultBytes

	return &resp, nil
}
```

**Explanation of code:**

`Query` function queries the application state. It takes a context and a query as input and returns a response or an error.

> If the query data is equal to "history", it fetches the history of messages from the application's state database and

Reviewer: Consider adding checks in the different ABCI calls (or in `model`) to make sure no user can be call "history"

Reviewer 2: That's a good point, I'll add some logic to the tx validation to prevent users submitting a key `history` and that will be used in the check tx validation
